what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose Oh almost
episode without teeth much better what
is up guys karma medic here and welcome
back to another dose today I want to
talk about the three reasons why I
believe I was rejected from medical
schools the first time I applied when I
was leaving high school hopefully you
can hear what I have to say and take my
advice that you don't make the same
mistakes that I did when I was applying
and hopefully that helps in getting you
guys and acceptance to medical school
okay so when I was in high school I
always did really well on all of my
exams all of my assignments my homework
whatever the rest of it I was pretty
studious and I always strive to perform
the best that I could academically and
so when I finished my GCSEs I think I
had 10 a stars and 1 a and that a was in
biology surprisingly enough but even
with my IB I was predicted 43 points
when I went to apply for medical school
now 43 points out of 45 as I'm sure a
lot of you know is pretty good
so with those grades I felt like I could
apply to all the most prestigious you
needs all the most difficult unions to
get into and that I would totally be
fine so that's the first thing that I
did wrong I only applied to the most
elite the most difficult the most
competitive universities that I could
think of and the reason I did that was
because I was under a false impression
of having done super well in my high
school years that I thought if I had
applied to these great unions that since
I've been doing so on the past I'll
probably still do well in the future and
I'm gonna be fine now the thing when it
comes to applying to medical schools
after high school is that they're
extremely extremely competitive as I'm
sure you already know and because of
that you really need to apply
strategically you can't just apply to
whatever schools you feel like whatever
you think is the coolest school
unfortunately you need to look at your
grades you need to look at the
universities and apply strategically you
apply to your own strengths to increase
your chances of getting accepted so when
I applied out of high school I applied
to Cambridge Edinburgh Imperial and
King's College London now the stupid
thing about that was that I didn't give
myself any safety options I only applied
to schools that would give me offers
which were extremely extremely high and
I didn't have a mixture of other schools
that would give me more safe offers in
case the future didn't go so well make a
list of all the medical schools in the
UK and really there aren't that many
there's something somewhere between 20
and 30
schools I believe just make a list of
all the medical schools and you can
start eliminating with them one by one
logically and strategically once you
know what your own grades are or what
your predicted grades will be you need
to go to each individual University and
look at their specific cut-offs if they
state that you need a UK account of at
least 700 to apply then don't apply if
you have less than 700 and if they state
that you need two a's and one a star in
your predicted grades you have anything
less than that then don't apply you want
to make sure that you apply to schools
where your grades on your background is
most strategic and is most applicable
for example if you don't end up with
such a great UK cats war then you
haven't watched my videos but you turn
end up with such a great UK cat score
then you want to apply to medical
schools that don't put huge emphasis on
the UK cap as you do research you'll
find that some schools prefer some parts
of the application over others for
example some schools will say that the
Dookie cat is a very important part of
their application I'm more specifically
in the situation the situational
judgment section whereas other schools
will say we don't really care about the
situational judgment section we care
more about the other three scores and if
you look even further you might find
that some schools place heavy emphasis
on GCSE grades whereas other schools
just use them as a baseline cutoff the
point I'm trying to make here is that
every school is different I can't sit
here and tell you one blanket statement
that will help you choose which you need
to apply to every single University has
their own preferences their own cut-offs
and you need to do that research to
figure out what is best for you if
you're a mature student or someone who's
how to previous degree so you're gonna
enter medicine through graduate entry
then that's something you also want to
look into there are some medical schools
that will take in more graduate entry
medicine students than others you can
also look at the previous year's
admissions data this should all be
publicly available information and if
you do your research well enough you'll
find it other things you can do to help
are look online on forums for people
talking about the school itself from
previous years maybe they have
information to share about the interview
process or something that they like or
dislike about the school and that can
help you make your choices - so anyways
I feel like I'm rambling the first point
is don't apply blindly to schools I
ended up getting three straight
rejections and then one interview from
Cambridge I went to my Cambridge
interview but it didn't really go so
well and so I ended up with
or total rejections now moving on to
point number two point number two is
that I didn't take the UK cat and the B
map seriously enough now you might have
heard from a lot of people that you kick
on the Bema is an exam that you can't
really study for it's an exam that you
just have to take and it determines how
clever you are that is not the case at
all the UK cat most especially is an
exam that you can learn how to do it's
an exam that you can absolutely excel at
to practice and through exposure to
questions and just time dedication a lot
of medical schools place heavy emphasis
on the UK count and they do that because
it's very easy for them to set a cut-off
and get rid of any applications that
place below that cutoff so the UK cap
when it came to study for the UK count
in 2013 when I was applying to medical
schools late 2012 or early 2013 I
definitely didn't take it as seriously
as I should have
I just thought that since I had been
doing so one in high school again I had
43 prediction for IB I felt like I knew
all of my academic stuff very well I
thought that I would just spend some
time practicing for the UK can do a
couple practice questions and I would do
just fine and that's not what happened
at all so please take the time to
prepare for the UK cat set-aside a good
chunk of time you only really need a
month maybe a month in a week a month in
two weeks if you want to be extra safe
but set aside that time and work hard
during is that you can perform really
well I ended up scoring pretty much
exactly average on the UK cap and so
that didn't really help my application
in any way it didn't exclude me from any
of the cuddles
but it also didn't propel me and make me
more likely to get an interview and
really the hardest part about these
medical school applications is getting
to the interview the interview I find is
the most competitive part once you reach
the interview you're out of like 30 40
or even sometimes 50% chance of getting
accepted so getting to the interview is
the hardest part in my opinion yes
moving onto number three number three is
talking about how to prepare for and be
ready for the interview so once you've
already applied for TG CLE to schools
based on your strengths once you've
already studied for and taken the UK car
and hopefully smashed it now you've
gotten an interview and you need to
prepare for that now interviews
especially at the young age of 1718 can
seem like a really really scary thing
and trust me I know but that doesn't
mean that you shouldn't take the
to prepare for and be as ready as you
can the interview is an absolutely great
way to showcase to all of the medical
admissions people how much you care
about medicine how motivated you are and
how much you want to get in and you can
do this in a multitude of ways you'll
mostly be talking about your past
experiences you'll talk about any
volunteering and care work or shadowing
that you've done and these will all
bring out of you your motivations for
medicine and why you are a perfect
candidate to get admitted to their
school now for some people talking in
front of others or explaining themselves
their motivations their justifications
comes very easily and they have no
problem doing that for others it's gonna
be a little bit more difficult and
something that you can definitely
improve upon with practice now for me I
like to think of myself as a really
social person I have no problem getting
along with others I've know from talking
to and meeting new people but it's
something about the interview setting
that gets me really really nervous and
puts me in a different headspace since I
haven't done an interview before when I
went to my first medical school
interview at Cambridge this all kind of
hit me like a bus and all in one go and
I sort of discovered that I'm a nervous
person in interviews I discovered that I
tend to swell law I get really shaky my
voice starts to crack and these were all
very bad things to discover for the
first time during my interview when you
want to do to avoid this is get as much
practice interview as you can afford the
real one at your medical school you want
to practice with friends you want to
practice with family you want to
practice with even strangers who are
also doing the medicals qualification
who also have interviews you guys can
sit down and practice together and you
can go through these experiences and see
what you do before you're actually in
the interview room also don't do what I
did and just study biology and chemistry
and like scientific subjects the
interview for the most part is about you
who you are as a person and your
motivations to pursue medicine also your
understanding of ethics and the
different factors that come in to
certain medical procedures or decisions
yes you need to know your biology in
your chemistry but that's not the most
important thing because that's something
you can easily learn when you're at
university however your motivations to
pursue medicine the reasons why you want
to do medicine those are things that are
innate to you and those are things that
they can teach you once around medical
school so that's something they really
want to focus on and they want to
make sure that you're in it for the
right reasons so before you go to your
interview do a lot of googling do a lot
of searching for past example questions
things that can start getting you to
think about your reasons for wanting to
do medicine and if you do all that
practice when it comes to interview day
you should be ready for any questions
thrown at you and don't worry guys I'm
gonna make a whole separate video about
the interview process how to tackle
certain questions I'm trying to answer
them to the best of your abilities and
last but not least for the interview
something that's really important to me
and I know that it might be important to
some of you guys watching as well but
it's so so so important to learn to
control your nerves to learn to retain
your composure and be able to eloquently
present yourself when you're in
interview for me when I stepped into the
interview room my honesty I became a
different person I was incapable of
explaining myself properly I wasn't
capable of getting my thoughts across
and that's something that really
hindered me long term so yeah that's my
little bit about nerves it's the worst
thing when you actually feel confident
you feel like you know your stuff but
then nerves get in the way if you can
practice that and try and eliminate that
from one of the problems during
interviews not be absolutely amazing I
just wanted to get that out there talk
about the three things that I thought
led to me getting rejections when I
applied to medical school as a school
leaver of course after that I went to
the University of Toronto in Canada to
do my undergraduate degree in immunology
and microbiology and then I applied to
King's again as a graduate student and I
ended up getting in so if you really
want to do medicine don't be put down by
the first round of applications if it's
something you really want to do you can
always take a year off you can always
gain more experience you can always do
another degree and then you can still
apply medicine isn't going anywhere
it's still there when you apply and you
can still get in alright and I think
that's it if you enjoyed this video feel
free to leave a like if you want to see
more videos from me feel free to
subscribe to this channel and yeah I
hope to you guys in the next one you
have any questions if you have any
comments leave them down below I'll be
having a great day and happy preparing
for your UK cat and your applications
and all the rest of it alright guys I'll
see you in the next one peace